# Effect of NFL team success on metro-level economic GDP of the area and personal income
The NFL is a massive business where its success is associated with local economic growth. The following project asks whether major NFL success shocks are associated with measurable change in the metro-level economic area in the following year. More specifically, this early results study will look at if a metro area's first Super Bowl is followed by changes to the metro level GDP, or personal income per capita. Based on the proper literature, we expect there to be modest positive effects that aren’t that dramatic, since sports related spending may be offset by crowding out or leakage. Also, GDP can dilute local shocks. 
## Data
The data used in this study has a mix of economic data and NFL data that is combined in a panel dataset with year and location data. It sees whether team success in season t is associated with economic outcomes in year t+1. The NFL data comes from nflverse schedule data, from which important statistics like playoff wins, Super Bowl wins, win percentage, and general team information were included (Carl et al., 2025). The economic portion of the data comes from the U.S Bureau of Economic Analysis county income files, which were then aggregated to become research defined metro areas that were decided based on what I thought, which NFL teams covered which areas of the United States (U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis, 2026). The resulting panel links NFL seasons from 2005-2023 to economic outcomes from 2006 to 2024, and this includes repeated yearly observations for NFL metros with variables such as metro_id, econ_year, avg_win_pct, any_playoff_team, any_super_bowl_win, metro_gdp, and metro-level personal income measures. Because the metro definitions are research constructed rather than taken from a single sports geography source, one limitation is the possibility of geographic error.
## Data construction
The data was constructed using the CodeFiles/FinalDatasetCreation.rmd. The following rmd uses files within the RawData folder that were downloaded from the U.S Bureau of Economic Analysis, each queried to include the following years presented in the files. They were merged with nflverse data that was downloaded as an R package (documentation can be found in the nflverse repo on github). To construct the final data, just run this file and the data will be created. 
## References
Carl S, Baldwin B, Sharpe L, Ho T, Edwards J (2025). nflverse: Easily Install and Load the 'nflverse'. R package version 1.0.3.9001, https://nflverse.nflverse.com/.
U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis, "CAINC1 County personal income summary: personal income, population, per capita personal income" (accessed Saturday, March 7, 2026).
U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis, "CAGDP1 County gross domestic product (GDP) summary" (accessed Saturday, March 7, 2026).
